README.md, before:

# epi_corrections
Python script for pipeline implementation for correction of magnetic susceptibility induced (geometric and intensity) artefacts from off-resonance field in EPI MRI images. Using existing libraries, such as FSL topup and EPIC.

The methods make use of the different distortions in Echo Planar Images (EPI) depending on direction of phase encoding in the k-space EPI encoding (positive/blip-up and negative blip-down phase encoding).

For a correction of a pair of EPI images (blip-up, blip-down), the different type of distortion based on phase encoding directions are used to to make an off-resonance field.

The off-resonance field is then used to "unwrap" each EPI image in the pair, aiming the two to be identical.

Dependencies (might work with other versions too):

FSL 6.0.0 : For topup and various tools used
EPIC (TODO included in the folder epic)
freesurfer-Linux-centos6_x86_64-stable-pub-v6.0.0-2beb96c : For mri_robust_register
nipype : for similarity metrics
dcm2niiX version v1.0.20180622 GCC4.9.2 (64-bit Linux) (included under scripts along with wrapper script) : For DICOM (.dcm) to NIFTI (.nii) file conversion

References:

FSL topup:

Andersson, J. L. R., Skare, S. & Ashburner, J. How to correct susceptibility distortions in spin-echo echo-planar images: application to diffusion tensor imaging. NeuroImage 20, 870–888 (2003).

EPIC:

Holland, D., Kuperman, J. M. & Dale, A. M. Efficient Correction of Inhomogeneous Static Magnetic Field-Induced Distortion in Echo Planar Imaging. Neuroimage 50, 175 (2010).

Commit message:

add modified dcm2niix that does not reorient image to scanner RPI

README.md, after:

# epi_corrections
Python script for pipeline implementation for correction of 
magnetic susceptibility induced (geometric and intensity) 
artefacts from off-resonance field in EPI MRI images. 
Using FSL topup and EPIC.

The methods make use of the different distortions in 
Echo Planar Images (EPI) depending on direction of 
phase encoding in the k-space EPI encoding 
(positive/blip-up and negative blip-down phase encoding).

For a correction of a pair of EPI images (blip-up, blip-down), 
the different type of distortion based on phase encoding 
directions are used to to make an off-resonance field.

The off-resonance field is then used to "unwrap" each EPI 
image in the pair, aiming the two to be identical.

Dependencies:

FSL 6.0.0 : For topup and various tools used
EPIC (TODO included in the folder epic)
freesurfer-Linux-centos6_x86_64-stable-pub-v6.0.0-2beb96c : For mri_robust_register
nipype : for similarity metrics
dcm2niix version v1.0.20181125  GCC7.3.0 (64-bit Linux) 
modified by Oliver M. Geier to not reorient the scan to the 
scanner's RPI coordinate system (so that the orientation of .nii 
files converted with dcm2niix match the orientation of the 
original .dcm files (if the patient was not correctly aligned with the 
MRI scanner RPI corrdinate system during the scan. If the patient's orientation 
was correctly aligned with the mri machine coordinate system, then this
modification does not have an effect on the .dcm -> .nii conversion
than with the nonmodified version)).
Included under scripts along with wrapper script : For DICOM (.dcm) to NIFTI (.nii) file conversion

References:

FSL topup:

Andersson, J. L. R., Skare, S. & Ashburner, J. How to correct susceptibility distortions in spin-echo echo-planar images: application to diffusion tensor imaging. NeuroImage 20, 870–888 (2003).

EPIC:

Holland, D., Kuperman, J. M. & Dale, A. M. Efficient Correction of Inhomogeneous Static Magnetic Field-Induced Distortion in Echo Planar Imaging. Neuroimage 50, 175 (2010).
